- Cost management
    Azure doesn't directly bill based on the resource cost. Charges for a resource are calculated by using one or more meters. 
    Meters are used to track a resource's usage throughout its lifetime. These meters are then used to calculate the bill.
    For example, when you create a single Azure resource, like a virtual machine, it has one or more meter instances created. 
    Meters are used to track the usage of the resource over time. Each meter emits usage records that are used by Azure 
    to calculate the bill.
    For example, a single virtual machine (VM) created in Azure may have the following meters created to track its usage:
    Compute Hours, IP Address Hours, Data Transfer In, Data Transfer Out, Standard Managed Disk, Standard Managed Disk Operations, 
    Standard IO-Disk, Standard IO-Block Blob Read, Standard IO-Block Blob Write, Standard IO-Block Blob Delete

- Paas
    Platform as a service (PaaS) is a complete development and deployment environment in the cloud, 
    with resources that enable you to deliver everything from simple cloud-based apps to sophisticated, 
    cloud-enabled enterprise applications. You purchase the resources you need from a cloud service 
    provider on a pay-as-you-go basis and access them over a secure Internet connection.
    Like IaaS, PaaS includes infrastructure-servers, storage and networking-but also middleware, development tools, 
    business intelligence (BI) services, database management systems and more. PaaS is designed to support 
    the complete web application lifecycle: building, testing, deploying, managing and updating.
    PaaS allows you to avoid the expense and complexity of buying and managing software licenses, 
    the underlying application infrastructure and middleware, container orchestrators such 
    as Kubernetes or the development tools and other resources. You manage the applications 
    and services you develop and the cloud service provider typically manages everything else.

- High Elasticity 
    You can increase or decrease your capacity based on the current demand . It's like scalability but with being able to 
    decrease your capacity .
    Horizontal scaling : Scaling out / Scaling in => Add or remove servers of the same size
    Vertical scaling is generally hard for traditionnal architecture so you'll usually only see horizontal scaling described 
    with Elasticity .
    > Elastic computing is the ability to quickly expand or decrease computer processing, memory, and storage 
    resources to meet changing demands without worrying about capacity planning and engineering for peak usage. 
    Typically controlled by system monitoring tools, elastic computing matches the amount  of resources allocated 
    to the amount of resources actually needed without disrupting operations. With cloud elasticity, a company avoids 
    paying for unused capacity or idle resources and doesn't have to worry about investing in the purchase or maintenance 
    of additional resources and equipment.
    While security and limited control are concerns to take into account when considering elastic 
    cloud computing, it has many benefits. Elastic computing is more efficient than your typical 
    IT infrastructure, is typically automated so it doesn't have to rely on human administrators 
    around the clock, and offers continuous availability of services by avoiding unnecessary 
    slowdowns or service interruptions.

- Public, Hybrid and private clouds
    Private cloud is a type of cloud computing that delivers similar advantages to public cloud, 
    including scalability and self-service, but through a proprietary architecture. Unlike public clouds, 
    which deliver services to multiple organizations, 
    a private cloud is dedicated to the needs and goals of a single organization.

    As a result, private cloud is best for businesses with dynamic or unpredictable 
    computing needs that require direct control over their environments, typically to meet security, 
    business governance or regulatory compliance requirements.
    There are three general cloud deployment models: public, private and hybrid.

    A public cloud is where an independent, third-party provider, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure, 
    owns and maintains compute resources that customers can access over the internet. Public cloud users share these resources, 
    a model known as a multi-tenant environment.
    By comparison, a private cloud is created and maintained by an individual enterprise. The private cloud might be based 
    on resources and infrastructure already present in an organization's on-premises data center or on new, separate infrastructure. 
    In both cases, the enterprise itself owns and operates the private cloud.
    A hybrid cloud is a model in which a private cloud connects with public cloud infrastructure, allowing an organization 
    to orchestrate workloads across the two environments. In this model, the public cloud effectively becomes an extension 
    of the private cloud to form a single, uniform cloud. A hybrid cloud deployment requires a high level of compatibility 
    between the underlying software and services used by both the public and private clouds.
    When an organization properly architects and implements a private cloud, it can provide most of the same benefits 
    found in public clouds, such as user self-service and scalability, as well as the ability to provision 
    and configure virtual machines (VMs) and change or optimize computing resources on demand. 
    An organization can also implement chargeback tools to track computing usage and ensure business units pay only 
    for the resources or services they use.
    Private clouds are often deployed when public clouds are deemed inappropriate or inadequate for the needs 
    of a business. For example, a public cloud might not provide the level of service availability or uptime that 
    an organization needs. In other cases, the risk of hosting a mission-critical workload in the public cloud 
    might exceed an organization's risk tolerance, or there might be security or regulatory concerns related 
    to the use of a multi-tenant environment. In these cases, an enterprise might opt to invest in a 
    private cloud to realize the benefits of cloud computing, while maintaining total control and ownership of its environment.
    However, private clouds also have some disadvantages. First, private cloud technologies, such as increased automation 
    and user self-service, can bring some complexity into an enterprise. These technologies typically require 
    an IT team to rearchitect some of its data center infrastructure, as well as adopt additional management tools. 
    As a result, an organization might have to adjust or even increase its IT staff to successfully implement 
    a private cloud. This is different than public cloud, where most of the underlying complexity is handled by the cloud provider.
    Another potential disadvantage of private clouds is cost. A benefit of public cloud is cost mitigation through 
    the use of computing as a "utility" -- customers only pay for the resources they use. When a business owns 
    its private cloud, however, it bears all of the acquisition, deployment, support and maintenance costs involved.

-Scale Sets
    Allows you group together identical VMs and automatically increase or decrease the amount of servers based on :
       - Change in CPU , memory disk and network performance
       - On a predefined schedule
    Azure virtual machine scale sets let you create and manage a group of identical, load balanced VMs. 
    The number of VM instances can automatically increase or decrease in response to demand or a defined schedule. 
    Scale sets provide high availability to your applications, and allow you to centrally manage, configure, 
    and update a large number of VMs. With virtual machine scale sets, you can build large-scale services for 
    areas such as compute, big data, and container workloads.
    To provide redundancy and improved performance, applications are typically distributed across multiple instances. 
    Customers may access your application through a load balancer that distributes requests to one of the application instances. 
    If you need to perform maintenance or update an application instance, your customers must be distributed to another 
    available application instance. To keep up with additional customer demand, you may need to increase the number 
    of application instances that run your application.
    A region is a set of datacenters deployed within a latency-defined perimeter and connected through 
    a dedicated regional low-latency network. With more global regions than any other cloud provider, 
    Azure gives customers the flexibility to deploy applications where they need to. Azure is generally 
    available in 46 regions around the world, with plans announced for 8 additional regions.

-Azure files
    Azure Files offers fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via the industry 
    standard Server Message Block (SMB) protocol. Azure file shares can be mounted concurrently by 
    cloud or on-premises deployments of Windows, Linux, and macOS. Additionally, Azure file shares 
    can be cached on Windows Servers with Azure File Sync for fast access near where the data is being used.
        Azure Files:
        Extend your servers to Azure with Sync for on-premises performance and capability.
        Secure data at rest and in-transit using SMB 3.0 and HTTPS.
        Simplify cloud file share management using familiar tools.
        Create high-performance file shares using the Premium Files storage tier.

- Azure ML
    Machine Learning Studio is a powerfully simple browser-based, visual drag-and-drop authoring 
    environment where no coding is necessary. Go from idea to deployment in a matter of clicks.
    Azure Machine Learning is designed for applied machine learning. Use best-in-class algorithms 
    and a simple drag-and-drop interface-and go from idea to deployment in a matter of clicks.

- Azure resource manager
    Azure Resource Manager is the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a consistent 
    management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources in your Azure subscription. 
    You can use its access control, auditing, and tagging features to secure and organize your resources after deployment.
    When you take actions through the portal, PowerShell, Azure CLI, REST APIs, or client SDKs, the Azure 
    Resource Manager API handles your request. Because all requests are handled through the same API, 
    you see consistent results and capabilities in all the different tools. All capabilities that are available 
    in the portal are also available through PowerShell, Azure CLI, REST APIs, and client SDKs.  

- Azure Log analytics
   Log Analytics is a web tool used to write and execute Azure Monitor log queries. 
   Open it by selecting Logs in the Azure Monitor menu. It starts with a new blank query.

- PowerShell
   PowerShell is a task-based command-line shell and scripting language built on .NET. PowerShell 
   helps system administrators and power-users rapidly automate tasks that manage operating systems (Linux, macOS, and Windows) 
   and processes. PowerShell commands let you manage computers from the command line. PowerShell 
   providers let you access data stores, such as the registry and certificate store, as easily 
   as you access the file system. PowerShell includes a rich expression parser and a fully developed scripting language.

- Azure global infrastructure:
    A region is a set of datacenters deployed within a latency-defined perimeter and connected through a dedicated regional 
    low-latency network. With more global regions than any other cloud provider, Azure gives customers 
    the flexibility to deploy applications where they need to. Azure is generally available in 46 regions around the world, 
    with plans announced for 8 additional regions.A geography is a discrete market, typically containing two or more regions, 
    that preserves data residency and compliance boundaries. Geographies allow customers with specific data-residency 
    and compliance needs to keep their data and applications close. Geographies are fault-tolerant to withstand 
    complete region failure through their connection to our dedicated high-capacity networking infrastructure.
    Availability Zones are physically separate locations within an Azure region. Each Availability Zone 
    is made up of one or more datacenters equipped with independent power, cooling, and networking. Availability 
    Zones allow customers to run mission-critical applications with high availability and low-latency replication.
    
- Azure VNets
    Azure Virtual Network (VNet) is the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure. 
    VNet enables many types of Azure resources, such as Azure Virtual Machines (VM), to securely communicate 
    with each other, the internet, and on-premises networks. VNet is similar to a traditional network 
    that you'd operate in your own data center, but brings with it additional benefits of Azure's infrastructure such as scale, availability, and isolation.
    VNet concepts:
        Address space: When creating a VNet, you must specify a custom private IP address space using public 
                       and private (RFC 1918) addresses. Azure assigns resources in a virtual network a 
                       private IP address from the address space that you assign. For example, if you deploy 
                       a VM in a VNet with address space, 10.0.0.0/16, the VM will be assigned a private IP like 10.0.0.4.
        Subnets: Subnets enable you to segment the virtual network into one or more sub-networks and allocate 
                 a portion of the virtual network's address space to each subnet. You can then deploy Azure 
                 resources in a specific subnet. Just like in a traditional network, subnets allow you to segment 
                 your VNet address space into segments that are appropriate for the organization's internal network. 
                 This also improves address allocation efficiency. You can secure resources within subnets using 
                 Network Security Groups. For more information, see Security groups.
        Regions: VNet is scoped to a single region/location; however, multiple virtual networks from different 
                 regions can be connected together using Virtual Network Peering.
        Subscription: VNet is scoped to a subscription. You can implement multiple virtual networks within 
                each Azure subscription and Azure region.

- Azure CLI
    For Windows the Azure CLI is installed via an MSI, which gives you access to the CLI through the Windows 
    Command Prompt (CMD) or PowerShell. When installing for Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), 
    packages are available for your Linux distribution.
    The Azure CLI is a command-line tool providing a great experience for managing Azure resources. 
    The CLI is designed to make scripting easy, query data, support long-running operations, and more.

- Azure Data Lake
   Azure Data Lake includes all the capabilities required to make it easy for developers, data scientists, 
   and analysts to store data of any size, shape, and speed, and do all types of processing and analytics across 
   platforms and languages. It removes the complexities of ingesting and storing all of your data while making 
   it faster to get up and running with batch, streaming, and interactive analytics. Azure Data Lake works 
   with existing IT investments for identity, management, and security 
   for simplified data management and governance. It also integrates seamlessly with operational stores 
   and data warehouses so you can extend current data applications. We've drawn on the experience 
   of working with enterprise customers and running some of the largest scale processing and analytics 
   in the world for Microsoft businesses like Office 365, Xbox Live, Azure, Windows, Bing, and Skype. 
   Azure Data Lake solves many of the productivity and scalability challenges that prevent you 
   from maximizing the value of your data assets with a service that's ready to meet your current and future business needs.
   Unlock new insights from your data with Azure SQL Data Warehouse, a fully managed cloud data warehouse 
   for enterprises of any size that combines lightning-fast query performance with industry-leading data security. 
   Optimise workloads by elastically scaling your resources in minutes. Get unlimited storage, 
   automated administration and built-in auditing and threat detection. Integrate seamlessly with Azure Active 
   Directory, Azure Data Factory, Azure Data Lake Storage, Azure Databricks and Microsoft Power 
   BI to provide a single holistic modern data warehouse solution for all your analytical workloads.

- Azure CLI 
   Install Azure CLI on Linux manually
   If there's no package for the Azure CLI for your distribution, install the CLI manually by running a script.

- Azure Firewall
   Azure Firewall: Cloud-native network security to protect your Azure Virtual Network resources

- Gatways
  A VPN gateway is a specific type of virtual network gateway that is used to send encrypted traffic between an 
  Azure virtual network and an on-premises location over the public Internet. You can also use a VPN gateway to 
  send encrypted traffic between Azure virtual networks over the Microsoft network. Each virtual network can have 
  only one VPN gateway. However, you can create multiple connections to the same VPN gateway. When you create 
  multiple connections to the same VPN gateway, all VPN tunnels share the available gateway bandwidth.
  A virtual network gateway is composed of two or more virtual machines that are deployed to a specific 
  subnet you create, which is called the gateway subnet. The VMs that are located in the gateway subnet 
  are created when you create the virtual network gateway. Virtual network gateway VMs are configured to 
  contain routing tables and gateway services specific to the gateway. You can't directly configure 
  the VMs that are part of the virtual network gateway and you should never deploy additional resources 
  to the gateway subnet.
  VPN gateways can be deployed in Azure Availability Zones. This brings resiliency, scalability, 
  and higher availability to virtual network gateways. Deploying gateways in Azure Availability 
  Zones physically and logically separates gateways within a region, while protecting your on-premises 
  network connectivity to Azure from zone-level failures.

- Azure virtual networks
  Azure virtual networks are similar to LANs on your on-premises network. The idea behind an Azure virtual 
  network is that you create a network, based on a single private IP address space, on which you can place 
  all your Azure virtual machines. The private IP address spaces available are in the Class A (10.0.0.0/8), 
  Class B (172.16.0.0/12), and Class C (192.168.0.0/16) ranges.
  Best practice: Create network access controls between subnets. Routing between subnets happens automatically, 
  and you don't need to manually configure routing tables. By default, there are no network access controls 
  between the subnets that you create on an Azure virtual network.
  Detail: Use a network security group to protect against unsolicited traffic into Azure subnets. 
  Network security groups are simple, stateful packet inspection devices that use the 5-tuple 
  approach (source IP, source port, destination IP, destination port, and layer 4 protocol) to create allow/deny 
  rules for network traffic. You allow or deny traffic to and from a single IP address, to and from multiple 
  IP addresses, or to and from entire subnets.
  When you use network security groups for network access control between subnets, you can put 
  resources that belong to the same security zone or role in their own subnets.

- Azure policy
  Azure Policy is a service in Azure that you use to create, assign, and manage policies. These policies enforce 
  different rules and effects over your resources, so those resources stay compliant with your corporate standards 
  and service level agreements. Azure Policy meets this need by evaluating your resources for non-compliance with 
  assigned policies. For example, you 
  can have a policy to allow only a certain SKU size of virtual machines in your environment. Once this policy 
  is implemented, new and existing resources are evaluated for compliance. With the right type of policy, 
  existing resources can be brought into compliance.
  There are a few key differences between Azure Policy and role-based access control (RBAC). 
  RBAC focuses on user actions at different scopes. You might be added to the contributor role 
  for a resource group, allowing you to make changes to that resource group. Azure Policy focuses 
  on resource properties during deployment and for already existing resources. Azure Policy controls 
  properties such as the types or locations of resources. Unlike RBAC, Azure Policy is a default allow and explicit deny system.

- DDoS protection.
  Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are some of the largest availability and security concerns 
    facing customers that are moving their applications to the cloud. A DDoS attack attempts to exhaust 
    an application's resources, making the application unavailable to legitimate users. DDoS attacks can 
    be targeted at any endpoint that is publicly reachable through the internet.
  Product features:
    Always-on monitoring and automatic network attack mitigation
    Adaptive tuning based on platform insights in Azure
    Application layer protection with Azure Application Gateway Web Application Firewall
    Integration with Azure Monitor for analytics and insights
    Protection against the unforeseen costs of a DDoS attack

- Trust center
  The Azure Security Information site on Azure.com gives you the information you need to plan, design, 
  deploy, configure, and manage your cloud solutions securely. With the Microsoft Trust center, you also 
  have the information you need to be confident that the Azure platform on which you run your services is secure.
  Compliance: Microsoft helps organizations comply with national, regional, and industry-specific requirements 
  governing the collection and use of individuals' data.

- Azure Key vault
  Azure Key Vault helps solve the following problems:

  Secrets Management 
    Azure Key Vault can be used to Securely store and tightly control access to tokens, 
    passwords, certificates, API keys, and other secrets.
    Key Management - Azure Key Vault can also be used as a Key Management solution. Azure Key Vault makes 
    it easy to create and control the encryption keys used to encrypt your data.
  Certificate Management 
    Azure Key Vault is also a service that lets you easily provision, manage, and 
    deploy public and private Secure Sockets Layer/Transport Layer Security (SSL/TLS) certificates for use with 
    Azure and your internal connected resources.
    Store secrets backed by Hardware Security Modules - The secrets and keys can be protected either by software 
    or FIPS 140-2 Level 2 validates HSMs  

- Azure Locks
   Lock resources to prevent unexpected changes!
   As an administrator, you may need to lock a subscription, resource group, or resource to prevent other users 
   in your organization from accidentally deleting or modifying critical resources. You can set the lock level 
   to CanNotDelete or ReadOnly. In the portal, the locks are called Delete and Read-only respectively.
   CanNotDelete means authorized users can still read and modify a resource, but they can't delete the resource.
   ReadOnly means authorized users can read a resource, but they can't delete or update the resource. Applying this 
   lock is similar to restricting all authorized users to the permissions granted by the Reader role.

- Question 28